So we've covered a lot of things about JSON in this course.
But JSON isn't the only rodeo in town.
There are other choices of serialization approach that can be more appropriate
in some of the use cases where JSON is commonly applied.
The big benefit that most people see in JSON is
that it's a human readable format.
This can aid debugging and development.
But the problem is that JSON isn't the most
performant approach to encoding data.
Binary formats can use up significantly less space in terms of
wire format and also be encoded more rapidly.
As we saw earlier,
schemas can help make your data interchange a more strongly type.
And there are options in terms of JSON schemas.
But as serialization formats have schemas out of the box that
integrate more easily and nicely into their usage.
Our first serialization format example is Google Protocol Buffers,
or protobuf for short.
Protobuf is a binary serialization mechanism.
So, instead of you producing plain text, it produces a series of bytes.
This allows for a more efficient encoding in certain cases.
Less bytes on the wire and faster encoding.
It's a language independent serialization format.
Meaning that it can be used from different programming languages,
and protobuf has implementations in Java,
C++, Python, C#, Haskell, Perl, and Ruby.
More are being added all the time.
It's also schemed, by default,
which reduces the scope for bugs as mentioned in the previous module.
Now,
the fact that JSON can be easily used directly by JavaScript in a web
browser gives it a huge advantage over other serialization mechanisms
for the server-to-browser use case.
Protobuf is more useful for the server- to-server use case.
It's an open source implementation backed by Google with plenty of
documentation and examples available online.
Whilst protobuf is a good general solution for improving
the efficiency of JSON serialization,
it's not ultimately the most high performance solution.
The open source SBE, or simple binary encoding library,
is the fastest gunslinger in the West when it comes to serialization.
It achieves really great performance by focusing the API on
encoding values in a linear sequence, a linear stride through memory.
This increases its CPU-cache friendliness and removes the need
to allocate a lot of intermediate objects,
making it more GC friendly.
It also has a strongly typed schema, like protobuf, and is language neutral.
In practice though,
one of the compromises when choosing SBE is it
supports less languages than protobuf, focusing on C++,
Java, and C#.
It's an open source project available from GitHub and Maven Central.
Try it if you really want the performance advantages that it
brings and you really want top-tier performance.
Throughout this course,
we've used the Jackson library for serializing and deserializing JSON.
But it's not the only library available,
and you may encounter others in practice.
GSON is a library open source by Google for processing JSON in Java.
It's focused on the binding-side of the API and can be
reliably used for this in production.
In general,
I think Jackson is a superior library as it tends to offer a bit more
flexibility in terms of API and a bit more power.
For example, Jackson offers a tree-style and a streaming API.
I think Jackson is more commonly used in general as well,
but if you do end up on a project that uses GSON,
then the knowledge from this course on the binding API
side of things can come in handy.
Now if you happen to have really small requirements in terms of binary size,
you might want to take a look at JSON Simple.
It is a simpler library than Jackson with a lot less features.
It's not as actively developed as Jackson these days,
but it does support producing and consuming JSON fine
and takes up a really small size.
Finally, there is a standard for JSON processing called JSONP, JSR 353.
It was maintained by the Java EE committee and is now
maintained by the Jakarta EE Foundation.
It's not as commonly used as Jackson, but it is likely to gain better adoption over time as it's a standard.